Jack Osterman
Annexstein
Senior Design
14 September 2020
Our design team’s project will be looking at the legitimacy of adaptive AI in video games using machine learning. Creation of games today is an ever expanding industry, setting records for both production/development costs as well as profits. A huge amount of time & effort is put into balancing the strengths, weaknesses, movements, etc. of the computer controlled enemies, as well as the creation of maps that create fun but challenging gameplay. Series like DOOM or Dark Souls are built on putting the player into an arena up against enemies with attacks that the player needs to master in order to progress. Using machine learning would, in theory, allow for an infinite skill ceiling and more playability, with automated level generation & AI opponents that adapt to the player’s skills & tendencies, making the challenge of progression always scaling as the player improves.
My courses at UC have given me useful knowledge for our project. Courses like CS2028 Discrete Structures gave significant experience in connecting the maths that will be needed for the AI systems with the coding side. On top of the more technical courses, EECE3093C	Software Engineering will be crucial for the more “meta” issues of keeping the project on course. In a project as long and complex as this, it’s easy to lose track of things. In other projects outside of school, I’ve utilised skills that I learned from Software Engineering to right the ship and found tools like Trello to help keep things on track. Finding a solution that works for the team will be crucial.
While my co-op experiences aren’t directly in game development or machine learning, they have given me plenty of experience in “getting thrown in the deep end” with new systems. All of my co-ops have been with FOX building their Android video player to be used across all FOX apps. When I joined, I had never worked with the Android platform before, and the project was in its infancy. This has given me significant exposure to working with various Android systems:UI/UX, video playback, chromecast, background audio, as well as FOX proprietary systems to create a complete product. The ability to learn, adapt, and connect the various systems for our project will certainly be benefitted by these prior experiences.
AI and Machine Learning are some of the buzzwords of the tech world at the moment. It’s an area that I admittedly have not worked in much as of starting this project, but I’ve seen how powerful it can be in other applications. Things like deepfakes/image manipulation to generate visuals indistinguishable from reality, personalization in advertising & recommendations, traffic data, etc. There are so many applications to machine learning that are being worked on, and it’s crucial to be able to have a deeper understanding of how systems like that are able to learn from datasets. AI also is a crucial part of the gaming world, and I see machine learning as a new method of creating AI enemies that many studios will be looking at using in the near future. As I said before, giving players an infinite skill ceiling & challenge to improve will draw in significantly more playtime, as there will always be more to master.
To start, we’re going to work to learn the Unreal Engine. It already has many tools built in that should give us a good starting point for ourgame. I believe the crucial thing we need to determine with our AI is not how it will improve, but how it will stay fair to the player as time progresses. It’s quite possible that an AI could learn to act “perfectly” and perform actions beyond human reaction times. There needs to be a limit on both learning how to beat the player, but not so far that the player physically cannot overcome it. Striking that balance may be difficult to quantify into something we can measure as “success” or “failure”.
