Craig Gorney Capstone Assessment

	This semester our capstone project revolves around the integration of Artificial Intelligence into the creation and playing of video games. From my perspective this is an important project to a large group of people. Video games are enjoyed by many people in the world and the industry is massive. From indie games that have but a few people on their development teams to AAA companies who boast hundreds and hundreds of employees. Using AI to create video games would first and foremost, make them more interactive and immersive than we could have ever hoped. It can also be used to reduce production time since you can have AI create the levels and mapping for a company. This also expands the use of procedural generation which creates content in real time. Which in turn reduces the amount of physical space the game takes up since everything is not hardcoded.
	During my college experience I have taken many classes that could provide useful when designing our project. The first one being AI Principles and Applications (CS 4033). This class was fundamental in starting both my knowledge and interest in the area. In this class we learned about the basics of designing an AI that learns. Such as Supervised Learning, Unsupervised, Reinforced, etc. And this experience is the basis for which our project will be built on. After this class there’s one more class I am currently taking that is helping guide our project. Intelligent Systems (EECE 5136), In this class we discuss the more specific areas of developing AI, from how memory is designed to mimic human behavior, and how we can fuel decision making. My professor for this class is also our faculty advisor.
	So far, I have co-op’d with two different companies. The first of which was at Lexis Nexis. For this I prepared documentation for the company and analyzed the network topology. While not technically complicated this co-op will help me with how I format and communicate my findings and methods to make them reader friendly and easily followable. Next up I worked at Siemens where most of my work was front end software development and I moved to backend near the end of my rotation. This helps our project a significant amount because it gave me the experience, I need for designing smooth and efficient code. It also gave me a good feel for the logic flow of code that requires a lot of complicated steps.
	The motivation for this project is mostly driven by my passion for video games. I went into computer science as my major because I enjoyed video games and I thought it would be a useful first step in the right direction. It’s also something I have spent a lot of time developing skills to be good at a wide array of games. I’m also passionate about the direction that Artificial Intelligence is taking. It’s fascinating in my eyes to create something and watch it grow to accomplish near human tasks. So it only makes sense that combining these two. I am extremely excited to see what we produce.
	For our project, We will be using Unreal Engine to design our basic game. Unreal engine is a wonderful tool for doing this because first and foremost it is open source and has an immense amount of support and community behind it. Another reason its great is because we can design our own C++ code and inject it into the npc’s for creating and motivating decisions. It also supports environment queries which we can use to get a feel of the in-game environment and use that to motivate decisions. Among these it also supports decision trees which I think is a beginner friendly approach to designing AI for enemies. Overall I Unreal engine is a great starting block for beginning to design out AI and I am excited to see what we create
	
